README.dev.md, before:

# Dev notes

## Installing SDL2 from submodule

Clone this repo recursively:

```shell
cd <your project dir>
git clone https://github.com/jspaaks/libsdl2-game.git --recursive .
```

Compile and install SDL2 from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl
cd build/sdl
../../third_party/sdl/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```
After this, `sdl-config --version` returns `2.31.0`.

Compile and install SDL_ttf from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl_ttf`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl_ttf
cd build/sdl_ttf
../../third_party/sdl_ttf/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```

Compile and install SDL_mixer from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl_mixer`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl_mixer
cd build/sdl_mixer
../../third_party/sdl_mixer/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```

## Uninstalling SDL2

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl
make uninstall
```

## Uninstalling SDL_ttf

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl_ttf
make uninstall
```

## Uninstalling SDL_mixer

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl_mixer
make uninstall
```

## Generating a bitmap image from SVG

Install [ImageMagick](https://github.com/imagemagick/imagemagick) from repositories:

```shell
sudo apt install imagemagick
```

Converting SVG images to BMP with transparency using ImageMagick's `convert` command:

```shell
convert -background none -density 96 img/sprites.svg img/sprites.bmp
```

# Sound effects

Sounds effects are from https://sfxr.me/.

## TODO

1. hitpoints texts
1. hitpoints shrapnel
1. review directory structure (src / bin / test etc)
1. packaging / distribution
1. consider adding tests, cmocka maybe

Commit message:

documented how to run the linter, clang-format

README.dev.md, after:

# Dev notes

## Installing SDL2 from submodule

Clone this repo recursively:

```shell
cd <your project dir>
git clone https://github.com/jspaaks/libsdl2-game.git --recursive .
```

Compile and install SDL2 from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl
cd build/sdl
../../third_party/sdl/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```
After this, `sdl-config --version` returns `2.31.0`.

Compile and install SDL_ttf from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl_ttf`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl_ttf
cd build/sdl_ttf
../../third_party/sdl_ttf/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```

Compile and install SDL_mixer from the bundled submodule (`third_party/sdl_mixer`):

```shell
cd <project dir>
mkdir -p build/sdl_mixer
cd build/sdl_mixer
../../third_party/sdl_mixer/configure --prefix <project dir>/lib
make
make install
```

## Uninstalling SDL2

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl
make uninstall
```

## Uninstalling SDL_ttf

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl_ttf
make uninstall
```

## Uninstalling SDL_mixer

```shell
cd <your project dir>/build/sdl_mixer
make uninstall
```

## Generating a bitmap image from SVG

Install [ImageMagick](https://github.com/imagemagick/imagemagick) from repositories:

```shell
sudo apt install imagemagick
```

Converting SVG images to BMP with transparency using ImageMagick's `convert` command:

```shell
convert -background none -density 96 img/sprites.svg img/sprites.bmp
```

## Linting

Linting an individual file:

```
# see if main.c is compliant with rules in .clang-format
clang-format --dry-run --Werror ./main.c

# see what clang-format would like the file to look
clang-format --Werror ./main.c

# see if all files are compliant with rules in .clang-format
clang-format --dry-run --Werror `find . -maxdepth 1 -type f -name '*.[c|h]'`
```

# Sound effects

Sounds effects are from https://sfxr.me/.

## TODO

1. hitpoints texts
1. hitpoints shrapnel
1. review directory structure (src / bin / test etc)
1. packaging / distribution
1. consider adding tests, cmocka maybe
